Business and Management — Knowledge of principles and facts related to business administration and accounting, human and material resource management in organizations, sales and marketing, economics, and office information and organizing systems 
Administration and Management — Knowledge of business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, human resources modeling, leadership technique, production methods, and coordination of people and resources. 
Clerical — Knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures and systems such as word processing, managing files and records, stenography and transcription, designing forms, and other office procedures and terminology. 
Economics and Accounting — Knowledge of economic and accounting principles and practices, the financial markets, banking and the analysis and reporting of financial data. 
Sales and Marketing — Knowledge of principles and methods for showing, promoting, and selling products or services. This includes marketing strategy and tactics, product demonstration, sales techniques, and sales control systems.
Customer and Personal Service — Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services. This includes customer needs assessment, meeting quality standards for services, and evaluation of customer satisfaction. 
Personnel and Human Resources — Knowledge of principles and procedures for personnel recruitment, selection, training, compensation and benefits, labor relations and negotiation, and personnel information systems. 
Manufacturing and Production — Knowledge of principles and facts related to the production, processing, storage, and distribution of manufactured and agricultural goods 
Production and Processing — Knowledge of raw materials, production processes, quality control, costs, and other techniques for maximizing the effective manufacture and distribution of goods.
Food Production — Knowledge of techniques and equipment for planting, growing, and harvesting food products (both plant and animal) for consumption, including storage/handling techniques. 
Engineering and Technology — Knowledge of the design, development, and application of technology for specific purposes. 
Computers and Electronics — Knowledge of circuit boards, processors, chips, electronic equipment, and computer hardware and software, including applications and programming.
Engineering and Technology — Knowledge of the practical application of engineering science and technology. This includes applying principles, techniques, procedures, and equipment to the design and production of various goods and services. 
Design — Knowledge of design techniques, tools, and principles involved in production of precision technical plans, blueprints, drawings, and models.
Building and Construction — Knowledge of materials, methods, and the tools involved in the construction or repair of houses, buildings, or other structures such as highways and roads. 
Mechanical — Knowledge of machines and tools, including their designs, uses, repair, and maintenance. 
Mathematics and Science — Knowledge of the history, theories, methods, and applications of the physical, biological, social, mathematical, and geography 
Mathematics — Knowledge of arithmetic, algebra, geometry, calculus, statistics, and their applications. 
Physics — Knowledge and prediction of physical principles, laws, their interrelationships, and applications to understanding fluid, material, and atmospheric dynamics, and mechanical, electrical, atomic and sub- atomic structures and processes. 
Chemistry — Knowledge of the chemical composition, structure, and properties of substances and of the chemical processes and transformations that they undergo. This includes uses of chemicals and their interactions, danger signs, production techniques, and disposal methods. 
Biology — Knowledge of plant and animal organisms, their tissues, cells, functions, interdependencies, and interactions with each other and the environment. 
Psychology — Knowledge of human behavior and performance; individual differences in ability, personality, and interests; learning and motivation; psychological research methods; and the assessment and treatment of behavioral and affective disorders. 
Sociology and Anthropology — Knowledge of group behavior and dynamics, societal trends and influences, human migrations, ethnicity, cultures and their history and origins. 
Geography — Knowledge of principles and methods for describing the features of land, sea, and air masses, including their physical characteristics, locations, interrelationships, and distribution of plant, animal, and human life. 
Health Services — Knowledge of principles and facts regarding diagnosing, curing, and preventing disease, and improving and preserving physical and mental health and well-being 
Medicine and Dentistry — Knowledge of the information and techniques needed to diagnose and treat human injuries, diseases, and deformities. This includes symptoms, treatment alternatives, drug properties and interactions, and preventive health-care measures.
Therapy and Counseling — Knowledge of principles, methods, and procedures for diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of physical and mental dysfunctions, and for career counseling and guidance. 
Education and Training — Knowledge of principles and methods for curriculum and training design, teaching and instruction for individuals and groups, and the measurement of training effects. 
Arts and Humanities — Knowledge of facts and principles related to the branches of learning concerned with human thought, language, and the arts. 
English Language — Knowledge of the structure and content of the English language including the meaning and spelling of words, rules of composition, and grammar. 
Foreign Language — Knowledge of the structure and content of a foreign (non- 
English) language including the meaning and spelling of words, rules of composition and grammar, and pronunciation.
Fine Arts — Knowledge of the theory and techniques required to compose, produce, and perform works of music, dance, visual arts, drama, and sculpture.
History and Archeology — Knowledge of historical events and their causes, indicators, and effects on civilizations and cultures.
Philosophy and Theology — Knowledge of different philosophical systems and religions. This includes their basic principles, values, ethics, ways of thinking, customs, practices, and their impact on human culture. 
Law and Public Safety — Knowledge of regulations and methods for maintaining people and property free from danger, injury, or damage; the rules of public conduct established and enforced by legislation, and the political process establishing such rules. 
Public Safety and Security — Knowledge of relevant equipment, policies, procedures, and strategies to promote effective local, state, or national security operations for the protection of people, data, property, and institutions. 
Law and Government — Knowledge of laws, legal codes, court procedures, precedents, government regulations, executive orders, agency rules, and the democratic political process. 
Communications — Knowledge of the science and art of delivering information 
Telecommunications — Knowledge of transmission, broadcasting, switching, control, and operation of telecommunications systems.
Communications and Media — Knowledge of media production, communication, and dissemination techniques and methods. This includes alternative ways to inform and entertain via written, oral, and visual media. 
Transportation — Knowledge of principles and methods for moving people or goods by air, rail, sea, or road, including the relative costs and benefits.
Cognitive Abilities: Abilities that influence the acquisition and application of knowledge in problem solving. 
Verbal Abilities — Abilities that influence the acquisition and application of verbal information in problem solving 
Oral Comprehension — Listening to and understand information and ideas presented through spoken words and sentences. 
Written Comprehension — Reading and understand information and ideas presented in writing. 
Oral Expression — Communicating information and ideas in speaking so others will understand. 
Written Expression — Communicating information and ideas in writing so others will understand. 
Idea Generation and Reasoning Abilities — Abilities that influence the application and manipulation of information in problem solving 
Fluency of Ideas — Coming up with a number of ideas about a topic (the number of ideas is important, not their quality, correctness, or creativity). 
Originality — Coming up with unusual or clever ideas about a given topic or situation, or to develop creative ways to solve a problem. 
Problem Sensitivity — Telling when something is wrong or is likely to go wrong. 
It does not involve solving the problem, only recognizing that there is a problem. 
Deductive Reasoning — Applying general rules to specific problems to produce answers that make sense. 
Inductive Reasoning — Combining pieces of information to form general rules or conclusions (includes finding a relationship among seemingly unrelated events). 
Information Ordering — Arranging things or actions in a certain order or pattern according to a specific rule or set of rules (e.g., patterns of numbers, letters, words, pictures, mathematical operations). 
Category Flexibility — Generating or using different sets of rules for combining or grouping things in different ways. 
Quantitative Abilities — Abilities that influence the solution of problems involving mathematical relationships 
Mathematical Reasoning — Choosing the right mathematical methods or formulas to solve a problem. 
Number Facility — Adding, subtracting, multiplying, or dividing quickly and correctly. 
Memory — Abilities related to the recall of available information 
Memorization — Remembering information such as words, numbers, pictures, and procedures. 
Perceptual Abilities — Abilities related to the acquisition and organization of visual information 
Speed of Closure — Quickly making sense of, combining, and organizing information into meaningful patterns. 
Flexibility of Closure — identifying or detecting a known pattern (a figure, object, word, or sound) that is hidden in other distracting material. 
Perceptual Speed — Quickly and accurately comparing similarities and differences among sets of letters, numbers, objects, pictures, or patterns. The things to be compared may be presented at the same time or one after the other. This ability also includes comparing a presented object with a remembered object. 
Spatial Abilities — Abilities related to the manipulation and organization of spatial information 
Spatial Orientation — Knowing your location in relation to the environment or to know where other objects are in relation to you. 
Visualization — Imagining how something will look after it is moved around or when its parts are moved or rearranged. 
Attentiveness — Abilities related to application of attention 
Selective Attention — Concentrating on a task over a period of time without being distracted. 
Time sharing — Shifting back and forth between two or more activities or sources of information (such as speech, sounds, touch, or other sources). 
Psychomotor Abilities: Abilities that influence the capacity to manipulate and control objects. 
Fine Manipulative Abilities — Abilities related to the manipulation of objects 
Arm-hand Steadiness — Keeping your hand and arm steady while moving your arm or while holding your arm and hand in one position. 
Manual Dexterity — Quickly moving your hand, your hand together with your arm, or your two hands to grasp, manipulate or assemble objects. 
Finger Dexterity — Making precisely coordinated movements of the fingers of one or both hands to grasp, manipulate, or assemble very small objects. 
Control Movement Abilities — Abilities related to the control and manipulation of objects in time and space 
Control Precision — Quickly and repeatedly adjusting the controls of a machine or a vehicle to exact positions. 
Multi-limb Coordination — Coordinating two or more limbs (for example, two arms, two legs, or one leg and one arm) while sitting, standing, or lying down. It does not involve performing the activities while the whole body is in motion. 
Response Orientation — Choosing quickly between two or more movements in response to two or more different signals (lights, sounds, pictures). It includes the speed with which the correct response is started with the hand, foot, or other body part. 
Rate Control — Timing your movements or the movement of a piece of equipment in anticipation of changes in the speed and/or direction of a moving object or scene. 
Reaction Time and Speed Abilities — Abilities related to speed of manipulation of objects 
Reaction Time — Quickly responding (with the hand, finger, or foot) to a signal 
(sound, light, picture) when it appears. 
Wrist-finger Speed — Making fast, simple, repeated movements of the fingers, hands, and wrists. 
Speed of Limb Movement — Quickly moving the arms and legs. 
Physical Abilities: Abilities that influence strength, endurance, flexibility, balance and coordination. 
Physical Strength Abilities — Abilities related to the capacity to exert force 
Static Strength — Exerting maximum muscle force to lift, push, pull, or carry objects. 
Explosive Strength — Using short bursts of muscle force to propel oneself (as in jumping or sprinting) or to throw an object. 
Dynamic Strength — Exerting muscle force repeatedly or continuously over time. 
This involves muscular endurance and resistance to muscle fatigue. 
Trunk Strength — Using your abdominal and lower back muscles to support part of the body repeatedly or continuously over time without “giving out” or fatiguing. 
Endurance — exert oneself physically over long periods without getting out of breath 
Stamina — Exerting yourself physically over long periods of time without getting winded or out of breath. 
Flexibility, Balance, and Coordination — Abilities related to the control of gross body movements 
Extent Flexibility — Bending, stretching, twisting, or reaching with your body, arms, and/or legs. 
Dynamic Flexibility — Quickly and repeatedly bending, stretching, twisting, or reaching out with your body, arms, and/or legs. 
Gross Body Coordination — Coordinating the movement of your arms, legs, and torso together when the whole body is in motion. 
Gross Body Equilibrium — Keeping or regaining your body balance or stay upright when in an unstable position. 
Sensory Abilities: Abilities that influence visual, auditory and speech perception. 
Visual Abilities — Abilities related to visual sensory input 
Near Vision — Seeing details at close range (within a few feet of the observer). 
Far Vision — Seeing details at a distance. 
Visual Color Discrimination — Matching or detect differences between colors, including shades of color and brightness. 
Night Vision — Seeing under low-light conditions. 
Peripheral Vision — Seeing objects or movement of objects to one’s side when the eyes are looking ahead. 
Depth Perception — Judging which of several objects is closer or farther away from you, or to judge the distance between you and an object. 
Glare Sensitivity — Seeing objects in the presence of a glare or bright lighting. 
Auditory and Speech Abilities — Abilities related to auditory and oral input 
Hearing Sensitivity — Detecting or telling the differences between sounds that vary in pitch and loudness. 
Auditory Attention — Focusing on a single source of sound in the presence of other distracting sounds. 
Sound Localization — Telling the direction from which a sound originated. 
Speech Recognition — Identifying and understand the speech of another person. 
Speech Clarity — Speaking clearly so others can understand you. 
Content — Background structures needed to work with and acquire more specific skills in a variety of different domains 
Reading Comprehension — Understanding written sentences and paragraphs in work related documents.
Active Listening — Giving full attention to what other people are saying, taking time to understand the points being made, asking questions as appropriate, and not interrupting at inappropriate times. 
Writing — Communicating effectively in writing as appropriate for the needs of the audience. 
Speaking — Talking to others to convey information effectively.
Mathematics — Using mathematics to solve problems. 
Science — Using scientific rules and methods to solve problems. Process — Procedures that contribute to the more rapid acquisition of knowledge and skill across a variety of domains 
Critical Thinking — Using logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions or approaches to problems.
Active Learning — Understanding the implications of new information for both current and future problem-solving and decision-making.
Learning Strategies — Selecting and using training/instructional methods and procedures appropriate for the situation when learning or teaching new things.
Monitoring — Monitoring/Assessing performance of yourself, other individuals, or organizations to make improvements or take corrective action. 
Social Skills — Developed capacities used to work with people to achieve goals 
Social Perceptiveness — Being aware of others' reactions and understanding why they react as they do. 
Coordination — Adjusting actions in relation to others' actions.
Persuasion — Persuading others to change their minds or behavior. 
Negotiation — Bringing others together and trying to reconcile differences.
Instructing — Teaching others how to do something. 
Service Orientation — Actively looking for ways to help people. 
Complex Problem Solving Skills — Developed capacities used to solve novel, ill-defined problems in complex, real-world settings 
Complex Problem Solving — Identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions. 
Technical Skills — Developed capacities used to design, set-up, operate, and correct malfunctions involving application of machines or technological systems 
Operations Analysis — Analyzing needs and product requirements to create a design.
Technology Design — Generating or adapting equipment and technology to serve user needs.
Equipment Selection — Determining the kind of tools and equipment needed to do a job.
Installation — Installing equipment, machines, wiring, or programs to meet specifications.
Programming — Writing computer programs for various purposes. 
Operation Monitoring — Watching gauges, dials, or other indicators to make sure a machine is working properly. 
Operation and Control — Controlling operations of equipment or systems.
Equipment Maintenance — Performing routine maintenance on equipment and determining when and what kind of maintenance is needed.
Troubleshooting — Determining causes of operating errors and deciding what to do about it.
Repairing — Repairing machines or systems using the needed tools. 
Quality Control Analysis — Conducting tests and inspections of products, services, or processes to evaluate quality or performance. 
Systems Skills — Developed capacities used to understand, monitor, and improve sociotechnical systems 
Judgment and Decision Making — Considering the relative costs and benefits of potential actions to choose the most appropriate one.
Systems Analysis — Determining how a system should work and how changes in conditions, operations, and the environment will affect outcomes.
Systems Evaluation — Identifying measures or indicators of system performance and the actions needed to improve or correct performance, relative to the goals of the system. 
Resource Management Skills — Developed capacities used to allocate resources efficiently 
Time Management — Managing one's own time and the time of others. 
Management of Financial Resources — Determining how money will be spent to get the work done, and accounting for these expenditures. 
Management of Material Resources — Obtaining and seeing to the appropriate use of equipment, facilities, and materials needed to do certain work. 
Management of Personnel Resources — Motivating, developing, and directing people as they work, identifying the best people for the job.